- [Toolchain Setup](#toolchain-setup)
  - [Linux](#linux)
    - [Xilinx Tools: Vivado, Vitis and Petalinux](#xilinx-tools-vivado-vitis-and-petalinux)

# Toolchain Setup

## Linux

### Xilinx Tools: Vivado, Vitis and Petalinux

DO NOT USE Ubuntu 24.04 LTS before Xilinx declare its support!

1. Download

    Xilinx has composed their toolchain in a single downloader called *unified installer for FPGA & SoCs*, since a certain version (maybe 2020). **Vivado, Vitis and Petalinux** are all included.

    Refer to:
    https://www.xilinx.com/support/download/index.html/content/xilinx/en/downloadNav/vivado-design-tools.html.

2. Pre-installation preparations

    Install the following libs:

        sudo apt install libncurses5
        sudo apt install libtinfo5
        sudo apt install libncurses5-dev libncursesw5-dev
        sudo apt install ncurses-compat-libs
    
    If you skip this then the installer may freeze at the last step "Generating installed device list", I'm sure it happens on Ubuntu 24.04 LTS. **DO NOT** press cancel when this occurs - the installer would then delete the whole 100GB template download file in the worst case. You may simply kill the terminal on which the installer is running, and install the above-mentioned libs afterwards. 
    
    However, this is of course a hammer-like solution. I can't tell if there's is any configuration after the "generating device list" procedure left undone.

3. Download & Install

    It is highly recommended to download the Xilinx tools as image file and manually install it afterwards. Otherwise there's risk that the installer simply delete everything as mentioned before.

    Notice that you can only select either of Vitis platform or Petlinux at once. Run the installer again for the other one when the previous finishes.

    Install the Petalinux where the root permission is not needed, instead of the default /tools/Xilinx/. 

4. (Optional) Add the toolchains to PATH.

        nano ~/.bashrc
    
    Add the following lines to the end of the file:

        export PATH=$PATH:/tools/Xilinx/Vivado/2023.1/bin
        export PATH=$PATH:/tools/Xilinx/Vitis/2023.1/bin
        export PATH=$PATH:~/softwares/Petalinux/bin

    Replace the path with your own.